Update sales handbook for account allocation and coverage under csm+tam overlay model (#19342)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/growth/sales/account-allocation.md

### Churn saves

An at-risk account follows the [risk mitigation and churn prevention](/handbook/growth/sales/risk-mitigation-and-churn-prevention) playbook, same as always. Flag early with the Churn Risk segment, dig into the why, and run the save.

When both a TAM and a CSM are on the account, they co-own the save. Both are responsible, and neither should assume the other is handling it.

An account going at risk is also not a reason to add a TAM. Churn saves are generally not a legitimate TAM opportunity. Risk on a CSM-only account stays with the CSM unless a genuine expansion opportunity qualifies through the normal path.

### Below $20k

Accounts below $20k don't get a CSM or TAM. The [coverage map](/handbook/growth/sales/customer-journey#coverage-map) covers who (or what) handles them, including Growth TAM coverage and automation.

---

## TAM book balance

TAM book size is set by ARR under management. Account count follows from that. This mirrors how [CSM books](/handbook/cs-and-onboarding/how-we-work) are balanced, by shape as well as total.

> - **Target:** $1.5M to $2.5M ARR per TAM. This usually works out to 12-18 accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- **Target:** Around $1.5M to $2M ARR per TAM. This should be 15 accounts, or between 12-18 accounts. There is a little in-quarter wiggle room, but generally TAMs should focus on a defined book of business. 
```

Beyond total size, a balanced book also needs:

- **Billing mix.** At least 40% of book ARR on monthly billing. Annual accounts still have plenty to work: renewals, cross-sells, and expanding into more of the org. But monthly accounts are where annual conversions come from, and usage growth there turns into cash faster, so a book with little monthly billing has a thin conversion pipeline.
- **Conversion candidates.** At least 2 accounts above $100k ARR with a realistic path to an annual conversion this year.
- **A staggered renewal calendar.** If half your book renews in the same quarter, a single weak quarter can set back the whole year, so spread renewals across the calendar.
- **Concentration awareness.** Two $200k accounts can be a quarter of your book. That's fine, but know what losing one does to your number. Don't stack more concentration than that.

If your book is outside these bounds at quarter start, work with your team lead to rebalance.

## Adding a TAM to an account

There is no CSM to TAM handoff anymore, because the CSM never leaves. Instead, when someone spots a growth opportunity on a CSM-covered account, they flag it for a TAM.

> Anyone can flag: the CSM, a TAE, support, or automated alerts. The flag routes to a TAM in the right region for qualification.

Reviewer: We need a lead routing flow here. Once the mechanism is decided, we can work with Abhischek to wire one up.

Author: yes exactly. left this ambiguous until then.

The receiving TAM qualifies the opportunity using the [growth potential framework](/handbook/growth/sales/evaluating-growth-potential). If it holds up, they join the account as the overlay, open the opp, and intro themselves to the customer with the CSM's help. If it doesn't, they document why in Vitally and the account stays CSM-only. A documented "no" is still useful. It stops the next person re-litigating the same idea in 3 months.

> We track coverage in Vitally with the existing segments: `CSM Managed` for the base layer and `AM Managed` for the TAM overlay. An account with both segments has both.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we update to reference PostHog?

Author: not yet, CA isnt fully usable for everything quite yet. once some of the latest feedback is addressed we can do a single PR to rip and replace vitally references across handbook IMO

---

## Removing a TAM from an account

A TAM stays on an account through expansion until it's fully saturated, not just until the first opportunity closes. As long as there's a realistic next play to work (another cross-sell, a new team to land, an annual conversion), the TAM keeps the account and works it. They come off once expansion is genuinely exhausted. In [journey](/handbook/growth/sales/customer-journey) terms, the account moves to Steady state and the overlay is removed. The CSM stays, so the customer keeps their point of contact throughout.

> A TAM being willing to release an account is itself a decent signal the upside is gone. TAMs are paid on their book, so they don't give up real opportunities lightly. But treat it as a signal and sanity check it. Team leads should verify before agreeing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A TAM being willing to release an account is itself a decent signal the upside is gone. TAMs are paid on their book, so they don't give up real opportunities lightly. But treat it as a signal and sanity check it. Team leads should verify before agreeing. Team leads should post in public for visibility and approval before removing
```

Removing a TAM is usually a good outcome, and typically means a healthy, expanded customer. Inventing an opportunity to justify staying on is worse than coming off cleanly.

TAM removals generally happen at the end of the quarter. Accounts can be added to a book at any time, but plan removals for quarter end so books stay stable and handovers get done properly rather than rushed mid-quarter.

### Keeping the context with the CSM

The CSM stays on, so nothing about the customer relationship changes from their side. But the TAM knows things the CSM doesn't, and that context has to land somewhere before they leave:

> - **A handover note in Vitally** covering: what expansion plays were run and how they went, commercial context (discounts given and why, anything promised, credit terms), open threads, and who the real decision makers are. Use the [handover note skill](https://github.com/PostHog/skills/tree/main/skills/team/product-led-sales/account-handover).

Reviewer: PostHog for Vitally as this will be relevant in Q4
